README.adoc, before:

= An Eventuate project

image::https://eventuate.io/i/logo.gif[]

This project is part of http://eventuate.io[Eventuate], which is a microservices collaboration platform.


= Eventuate Tram basic examples

https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram] implements transactional messaging for microservices written using JDBC.
This project implements the examples shown in that project's https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[README].

It consists of the following modules:

* `eventuate-tram-examples-common` - the examples for basic messaging, domain events and command/async reply
* `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` - runs the examples using in-memory stubs
* `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` - runs the examples using MySQL and Apache Kafka

== About `eventuate-tram-examples-common`

This module defines the transactional messaging examples:

* Basic messaging
* Domain events
* Commands, which implement request/asynchronous response

You can run the examples using the tests in the `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` and `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` modules.


== About `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` - running in-memory examples

This module executes the examples using `eventuate-tram-in-memory` module, which is extremely useful for writing fast running tests.

To run this version of the tests:

```
./gradlew :eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory:test
```

== About `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` - running examples with MySQL and Apache Kafka

This module executes the examples using MySQL and Apache Kafka.

=== Set DOCKER_HOST_IP environment variable

Before running MySQL and Apache Kafka using Docker Compose, you first need to set the `DOCKER_HOST_IP` environment variable.
This must be an IP address or resolvable hostname.
It cannot be `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`.
Please see this http://eventuate.io/docs/usingdocker.html[guide to setting `DOCKER_HOST_IP`] for more information.

=== Run MySQL and Apache Kafka

Once you have set `DOCKER_HOST_IP` you can then run MySQL and Apache Kafka using Docker Compose.

```
gradlew <database><mode>ComposeBuild
gradlew <database><mode>ComposeUp
```
where <database><mode> one of

* mysqlbinlog
* postgrespolling
* postgreswal

=== Run the tests

Once the containers have started you can run the tests:

```
./gradlew :eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka:test
```

=== Inspect the database

You can inspect the Eventuate Tram-related database tables:

```
$ ./mysql-cli.sh -it
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
...

mysql> select * from message\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
         id: 00000168d96469db-acde480011220000
destination: destination1549835461824
    headers: {"DESTINATION":"destination1549835461824","ID":"00000168d96469db-acde480011220000"}
    payload: Hello1549835461824
  published: 0

...
mysql> select * from received_messages\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
consumer_id: commandDispatcheId1549835467791
 message_id: 00000168d9647f65-acde480011220000
*************************** 2. row ***************************
...
mysql> quit
Bye
```

=== Clean up

To clean up:

```
./gradlew <database><mode>ComposeDown
```

== For more information

Please read the http://eventuate.io/tram/gettingstarted.html[Eventuate Tram getting started guide] or look at the http://eventuate.io/exampleapps.html[examples].

Commit message:

Upgraded ActiveMQ to support ARM, added start/stopServices tasks, mode Gradle property

README.adoc, after:

= Eventuate Tram basic examples

image::https://eventuate.io/i/logo.gif[]

This project is part of http://eventuate.io[Eventuate], which is a microservices collaboration platform.

It consists of a basic set of examples that show how to use the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram], which is a framework for transactional messaging, with Spring Boot.

The examples support a variety of databases and message brokers:

* Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL
* Message brokers: Apache Kafka, RabbitMQ, and ActiveMQ

== About the examples

There are the following examples:

* Messaging - sending and receiving messages
* Event publishing/subscribing - publishing of and subscribing to domain events
* Command/async reply - sending commands and receiving replies

=== Messaging
=== Event publishing/subscribing
=== Command/async reply


It consists of the following modules:

* `eventuate-tram-examples-common` - the examples for basic messaging, domain events and command/async reply
* `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` - runs the examples using in-memory stubs
* `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` - runs the examples using MySQL and Apache Kafka

== About `eventuate-tram-examples-common`

This module defines the transactional messaging examples:

* Basic messaging
* Domain events
* Commands, which implement request/asynchronous response

You can run the examples using the tests in the `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` and `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` modules.


== About `eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory` - running in-memory examples

This module executes the examples using `eventuate-tram-in-memory` module, which is extremely useful for writing fast running tests.

To run this version of the tests:

```
./gradlew :eventuate-tram-examples-in-memory:test
```

== About `eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka` - running examples with MySQL and Apache Kafka

This module executes the examples using MySQL and Apache Kafka.

=== Set DOCKER_HOST_IP environment variable

Before running MySQL and Apache Kafka using Docker Compose, you first need to set the `DOCKER_HOST_IP` environment variable.
This must be an IP address or resolvable hostname.
It cannot be `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`.
Please see this http://eventuate.io/docs/usingdocker.html[guide to setting `DOCKER_HOST_IP`] for more information.

=== Run MySQL and Apache Kafka

Once you have set `DOCKER_HOST_IP` you can then run MySQL and Apache Kafka using Docker Compose.

```
gradlew <database><mode>ComposeBuild
gradlew <database><mode>ComposeUp
```
where <database><mode> one of

* mysqlbinlog
* postgrespolling
* postgreswal

=== Run the tests

Once the containers have started you can run the tests:

```
./gradlew :eventuate-tram-examples-jdbc-kafka:test
```

=== Inspect the database

You can inspect the Eventuate Tram-related database tables:

```
$ ./mysql-cli.sh -it
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
...

mysql> select * from message\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
         id: 00000168d96469db-acde480011220000
destination: destination1549835461824
    headers: {"DESTINATION":"destination1549835461824","ID":"00000168d96469db-acde480011220000"}
    payload: Hello1549835461824
  published: 0

...
mysql> select * from received_messages\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
consumer_id: commandDispatcheId1549835467791
 message_id: 00000168d9647f65-acde480011220000
*************************** 2. row ***************************
...
mysql> quit
Bye
```

=== Clean up

To clean up:

```
./gradlew <database><mode>ComposeDown
```

== For more information

Please read the http://eventuate.io/tram/gettingstarted.html[Eventuate Tram getting started guide] or look at the http://eventuate.io/exampleapps.html[examples].
